Mathematics has helped me think about a lot of things outside math.
I'm sure other mathematicians will relate to this.  The tools and ways
of thinking that we use in mathematics are very helpful for making
sense of life in general.  But the mathematics we learn has nothing to
do with life in general!  It is all about manipulating shapes,
numbers, and symbols abstractly.  You have to learn a lot of
mathematics, which is really difficult in our society given how it's
taught, before you see its relevance to life in general.  Social Math
aims to talk about math in such a way that its relevance to life in
general is immediately relevant.  I also aim to make this math easily
accessible to the people it can help, which is anyone, not just people
who are already mathematicians.

This is very different than what mathematicians usually do.  They
usually go to school for years and years to learn the powerful system
of conceptual techniques that is mathematics, and what do they apply
these great tools to?  Instead of applying them to something that can
help people, most mathematicians apply them to the system to
mathematics itself! It's completely self-serving!

In the last paragraph I was primarily talking about pure
mathematicians.  There _do_ exist applied mathematicians, and even
mathematicians who apply mathematics to social science, but they are
not doing what I want to do.  There are a number of differences:

* In the way math is usually used in social science, it is used as
  a [black box](LLLLLLLLLLINK).  The concepts that social scientists
  come up with are put in one side of the box, and the mathematical
  results come out the other side.  The social concepts (such as
  gender, crime rate, income) are accepted by the mathematician
  uncomprehendingly and uncritically: they simply become abstract
  variables for mathematical analysis, and they lose all social
  content.  The results of mathematics are used by the social
  scientist, but the concepts of mathematics, the ways of thinking
  which are so helpful for me, are never applied to society.  Sure
  these ways of thinking are used to produce the results which the
  social scientists then use, but these results are taken as pure
  results, stripped of conceptual process that created them.  In this
  approach, mathematics never actually makes contact with social
  science: they talk past each other.
  
* It is generally only quantitative math, such as statistics, that is
  applied to social science.  I plan to apply qualitative math.  This
  is more apt, since the things humans care about in society are
  qualitative.  What math is qualitative, you ask?  Isn't math all
  numbers and quantities?  No.  As I see it, math has 4 big things
  that it is about: number, space, structure, and argument.  Geometry
  and topology study space, not number.  Algebra studies structure.
  Mathematical logic studies argument.  Math is so much more than just
  number.  Society is also so much more than just number.  Why not
  apply the mathematical analysis of structure to social structures,
  or the mathematical analysis of space to social spaces?
  
* When mathematics is applied to the analysis of society, society is
  generally simplifed and reduced in order for it to be described with
  mathematics.  Most mathematicians, if you asked them, would say it
  is necessary to make such a simplified model if you hope to analyze
  anything as complicated as society.  Social Math doesn't simplify
  society.  Rather it complexifies math.  (If you think mathematics is
  already complicated, let me remind you of a quote by von&nbsp;Neumann:
  "If people do not believe that mathematics is simple, it is only
  because they do not realize how complicated life is.")  This is what
  has to be done in order for mathematics to be correctly applied to
  society.  Mathematics is just a language and a conceptual scheme,
  and it must be subservient to the reality that it describes, not
  _vice versa_.  Math must be bent to society, not society to math.
  
* Applied mathematicians often want their models to have _predictive
  power_.  Basically, they want to make effective calculators for
  predicting the phenomena they are studying.  Social Math strives to
  have _descriptive power_ rather than _predictive power_.  Society is
  much too complicated to put into a calculator, unless you are
  analyzing a very restricted range of phenomena.  For some purposes,
  like insurance and marketing, this is adequate, because you _are_
  analyzing a very restricted range of phenomena.  But my purpose is
  to cultivate healthy relationships and change society, and in this
  it is wholly inadequate.  Moreover, I think that for these purposes
  human beings should always be the last agents in predicting outcomes
  of actions in order to decide on actions.  In order to do such
  predictions, humans need to understand the situation.  Thus, it is
  much more important for Social Math to _create human understanding_
  through its descriptive power than for it to supplant the role of
  humans by predicting outcomes all on its own.  Even if it did have
  predictive power, conscientious humans would not trust its
  predictions without first understanding the reasoning behind them,
  so predictive power only really matters insofar as there is
  descriptive power to support it.
  
The bending of math to society is not unprecedented.  In fact, it has
already happened in the application of mathematics to chemistry.  This
is my model for how I want to apply mathematics to society.
  
Hence I will talk about the application of mathematics to chemistry.

If I was told about how chemical theory worked before I had ever done
it, I would have thought it was ridiculous and I would not have
believed that anyone could be confident in its results.  A chemical
law is only true in a special case.  It has tons of exceptions, and it
directly contradicts other chemical laws.  It requires an experienced
practioner of chemistry to sort through all these laws, figure out
which ones apply, account for the exceptions, etc.  When two laws
predict contradictory results, they must be compared.  Yet other laws
answer the question "Which law has the bigger effect?"  To come to a
conclusion in chemical theory often requires discussion and debate
among multiple chemists.

I learned how to think in this messy, complicated system, and I can do
it and even come to conclusions that convince me, but I am baffled
that it works at all, and that the conclusions it produces are as
convincing as they are.  This system seemed highly exotic to me when I
learned it, since I was used to mathematics, but really this kind of
messiness and complexity is the rule rather than the exception, and
the polished logic of mathematics is the exception.  Social things
especially are complex like this.  Social things are more complex and
messy than chemical things.  So all the more, if we apply math to
society, we should expect a mess of this nature.  We need to stop
thinking of the application of math to society as something that will
reduce the complexity of society to something more manageable.  If we
attempt to reduce the complexity of society, we will no longer be
talking about society, but rather a simplified version.  We will have
bent society to math instead of math to society.  Math _will_ help us
understand society, but not through reducing society's complexity.

Why does chemical reasoning work when it is so messy?  It is because
the mess is grounded in reality.  Without the grounding of actual
experiments and other chemical things that happen in the real world,
chemical theory could not sustain itself.  Really, chemical theory is
a language for interpreting experimental results after they already
happened, not a language for predicting new ones.  It is a descriptive
system, not a predictive one.  Chemists can use the system to make
predictions, but the system itself does not predict.  This is just how
Social Math will have to be if it wants to describe the complexity of
social life without simplification.

So how exactly must math complexify itself in order to adhere to
society?  Let's use chemistry as a model.  In chemistry, all concepts
are open for revision.  For example, the concept of acids and bases is
revised to give the concept of an acidity scale.  The acidity scale,
first a qualitative thing, is given a precise definition in terms of
the concentration of solvated protons (pH), but this is later further
precisified by replacing "concentration" with "activity".  This goes
on and on.  Later refinements of a concept are not given different
names and considered different concepts, but are rather considered
different moments, or aspects of the same concept.  No concept is
fixed.  All concepts adapt and bend themselves to fit what they try to
describe.  Similarly, in Social Math, what is now something that is
just true or false may later turn out to have degrees of truth, and
what is now a function may turn out later to be just a partial
function, etc.  Social Math will never become attached to a model.
Any model will give way to another model without hesitation if by
doing so it can more accurately describe reality.

The key driving forces behind mathematics are the conceptual
techniques it comprises.  These conceptual techniques are what go into
the creative aspect of mathematics: creating systems and creating
arguments through which we know the systems.  However, these
conceptual techniques are not disclosed in mathematical writing.
Mathematical writing customarily states only the results of such
creativity.  ADDLINKTO_THURSTON_AND_GROTHENDIECKQUOTE? This
constitutes a lack of self-awareness in mathematics.  The conceptual
techniques of mathematics are generally only applied to the results of
mathematics, not enough to these conceptual techniques themselves.  In
order for mathematics to bend itself to society or whatever else it is
_correctly_ applied to, it really needs to become more self-aware.
Self-awareness in general is the key prerequisite for self-change.
Thus writing in Social Math will address all aspects of mathematics as
well as of society.  It will not only discuss the results of
mathematics, but the methods used to attain those results as well.
This self-consciousness is different from what is done ordinarily in
mathematics, but it is essential if we want to bend it to society.

Social Math is a confluence of the following:

* Mathematics, especially category theory
* Chemistry
* Hegelian and Marxian dialectics
* Rolequeer ethics
* Actual experience of living in this world




{% if 1==2 %}

These ways of thinking which mathematicians are especially good at
are, broadly:

* Making true statements of great generality
* Being very precise
* Using language precisely
* Finding counterexamples

These ways of thinking are not always useful, but often they are very
useful.  Mathematicians themselves often overrate their usefulness,
and try to use them even when they aren't applicable.  For example,
precision is overrated: accuracy is really more important, and
sometimes mathematicians won't appreciate an accurate statement just
because it is not expressed precisely (I have this problem).

jokes!

{% endif %}
