### Social Math Manifesto

Mathematics has had a great impact on the way I think.  Not just the
way I think about mathematics, but the way I think about everything.
The tools mathematicians use to think about mathematics transfer
beyond mathematics, and even beyond academia.  They are just good
tools for thinking about anything, and they definitely have relevance
to practical life.  The trouble is, most people don't know about them,
because the mathematics that is taught in
schools
[literally isn't mathematics](https://www.maa.org/external_archive/devlin/LockhartsLament.pdf).
This _non-mathematics_ that most people are familiar with not only
isn't helpful for thinking, but it is actively unhelpful, because it
is centered around following orders and saying the things that
authorities want to hear.  This is the very opposite of the free
creative thinking that real mathematics brings.  Most people don't
even know that real mathematics exists, since the non-mathematics in
school calls itself "mathematics" and thus eclipses real mathematics.

So how can you learn real mathematics?  Start with the books in the bibliography ;;;;;;;;;;insert link

Anyway, as I asserted at the beginning, real mathematics helps you
think about everything, not just mathematics.  So then, we would
expect that people who go to college and graduate school for pure
mathematics and get years and years of training would come out and
help the rest of us think.  But they don't!  Sadly, the only thing
they apply all that training to is more mathematics.  It is completely
self-serving! 

The isolation of mathematics from the rest of life is due to the
dysfunctional way that our culture treats mathematics.  As already
mentioned, school gives most of the population a warped image of what
mathematics actually is.  In this warped image, math is not about
creativity and understanding, but rather about memorization and
following directions.  People who get good at it are geniuses who just
think better than ordinary people: that way they can follow more
complicated directions and keep more things in their head at once.
For non-mathematicians, math is inaccessible and irrelevant to the
world.

Though mathematicians are saddened by the public's misperception of
mathematics, they are complicit in this misperception.  This is
because they write and speak in a highly cryptic style which only they
understand.  As long as they communicate this way, they have not the
means to disabuse the public of their confusion.  On the contrary,
anything they say reinforces the image of mathematics as cryptic
esoterica that only really smart people can understand.  The
dysfunctional communication style of mathematicians also alienates
newcomers and prevents mathematical culture from ever making it into
the general culture, which would be **amazing** if it happened.

As a consequence of all the obstacles to learning mathematics that our
society sets up, the only people who ever learn it are those who do
almost nothing else with their life.  Thus they become a much happier
version of MMORPG addicts, since they are living their whole life not
for the real world but for the mathematical world.  They are happier
than MMORPG addicts because 1) mathematical addiction is much more
highly valued in our society than MMORPG addiction and 2) the
mathematical world is not designed by capitalists to maximize for
addictiveness, but rather by the very same people (mathematicians) who
live there.  But it still does not rival the real world as a place to
spend one's life.  It should be possible to be a mathematician, but
live in the real world.

Now I said at the beginning that the tools of mathematics are useful
for everything, not just mathematics.  Despite this, mathematicians
generally only apply these tools outside mathematics for fun, to make
a joke, or to make an analogy for better understanding something
mathematical.  Professionally, they only apply the tools of
mathematics to mathematics itself, or to very closely related fields
such as physics and computer science.  Modern mathematics is like
_avant&nbsp;garde_
art,
[which no longer attempts to mirror the world, but instead mirrors art itself](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4%E2%80%B233%E2%80%B3).
Just like art, mathematics used to be applied to the world.  But now
it is applied almost exclusively to itself, and furthermore it is
applied to the application of itself to itself, _ad infinitum_.  It is
reflected into itself _ad infinitum_ just
like
[two mirrors facing each other](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinity_mirror#/media/File:Infinity_Mirror_Effect.jpg).
Mathematics sees infinitely far into itself, and this great
self-knowledge is largely responsible for its great power.  But its
mistake is that it doesn't see beyond itself.  Mathematics does not
exist as a celestial hall of mirrors surrounded by vacuum.  It has a
social existence.  The mathematical world lives in the communities of
mathematicians who think that they live in it.  Mathematics sees
infinitely far into itself, but it neglects the social sphere in which
its actual existence resides.  For mathematics to have true
self-knowledge, it must be applied to society.

Social Math is a proposal to do this.  In Social Math, mathematics
will be applied to the world that humans live in.  It will be
presented accessibly, and its relevance to the real world and everyday
life will be immediately apparent.
